Grace mercy and peace be unto you from our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
Again, a portion of the Old Testament reading from First Chronicles.
But who am I and what is my people that we should be able thus to offer willingly?
For all things come from you and of your own have we given you.
For we are strangers before you and sojourners as all our fathers were.
Our days on the earth are like a shadow and there is no abiding.
Our Lord, our God, all this abundance that we have provided for building you a house for your holy name comes from your hand and is all your own.
You'll join me in a word of prayer.
Lord God, Heavenly Father, truly all that we have comes from your hand.
Every part of our lives, every breath that we breathe, everything
that we make use of in this life and the beauty of your creation.
All of these are gifts that you have granted to us as your people.
Today with humility, I pray that we would consider this topic of how we support the ministry of this place and how we go through our lives as stewards, as people you have entrusted with resources, time and talents and treasure.
Lord, as we consider David's prayer this morning,
May we also humbly consider our own lives and the ways that you lead us and direct us as your people to walk with your son Jesus Christ, the one who sacrificially gave of himself for his people for each one of us.
Let us follow him and walk with him each day of our lives.
We pray that this would be true for each of us.
We pray in Jesus' name.
Amen.
The congregation may be seated.
One real quick
housekeeping items since I didn't make a point of it at the beginning.
We had letters that went out late this last week and may have arrived at your home already related to our stewardship practice and the season of stewardship here at Mount Calvary.
Each year we also make available to you pledge cards.
There's two of them.
One is for you to keep, fill out, keep for yourself in your own records.
One is
that card that can be filled out and then returned to church.
We also have these available in the North X this morning.
We have an offering plate in the North X where those things can be dropped off along with time and talent sheets, but you can also feel free to leave pledge cards in the offering plate this morning as it goes by.
Or if you're not prepared to do that this morning, any of the next couple of weeks, pledge cards can be brought here to church, dropped in the offering plate or simply mailed into the church office so we can collect both these pledge cards
and also our time and talent sheets.
It's helpful for us here at the church and a good spiritual practice as well for us.
Thank you for your prayerful support of our ministry.
This last week I read, and I don't know if it was written this week or a couple weeks ago, I read Warren Buffett's final letter sent to investors of Berkshire Hathaway.
You may know that Warren Buffett every year makes a point to write a letter to his investors,
And this one was his final one.
At least he says it was his final one on his 95th birthday, which was this year.
So he wrote his final letter.
And after all of these years of investing prowess of being one of the most notable names in the financial world, Warren Buffett is officially retiring, handing over the reins to someone else to take over the company.
But in his letter, it was interesting as I read through
He talked about what he was going to do with all the stuff he had accumulated.
One of the richest people alive.
And he talked about how this would now have to all be distributed mostly to his children's foundations so that those foundations could then give this money away to charitable causes.
I was reflecting on that a little bit.
It relates to today.
We're going to see in just a moment how David handles his last years, his last
days of his life.
But Warren Buffett's spending his entire life accumulating and building up, and he's been more successful than almost anybody at doing that, at accumulating wealth and of building up companies.
But now, in the last probably years of his life, he has to find ways to give it all away.
It should teach us something about life in general, and finances and money in general.
We may go through and have the opportunity to accumulate some things for a little while, but none of us can keep it.
None of us can take it.
None of us can actually make it last any longer than our lifetimes and even Warren now having to distribute everything that he has accumulated over the years.
One thing I did notice though, in his letter,
He doesn't, I don't know that he is, or if he is a person of faith, he doesn't talk about that very much.
But I did wonder, I had this thought.
He's giving all of this money away now.
I'm sure he's given some away over the years as well.
But if he had the call on his life, and what we're gonna see in David's prayer today, what if he'd had the opportunity over the years to find the joy in giving all of that away as much as he had had joy in accumulating it?
Or as much,
enthusiasm and giving it away as he has had in gathering it.
And perhaps he has.
I don't want to speak for him or mean to put that on his shoulders today.
But the idea is, if we have been given something, anything, a little bit or a lot, God invites us to make use of it.
And that's for our own good to be sure, but also and especially
for the good of community, for the good of the ministry, for the good of God's kingdom, that resource might go beyond us, beyond our lives, beyond us as individuals and go into the world for God's purposes.
Today we'll look at for just a few minutes, a passage in scripture that we don't usually get.
I substituted this passage today because I wanted to take a look at it.
It doesn't come up in our electionary, something I'm sad about because I think this is a really powerful passage.
We don't get readings from first chronicles normally, but today we do.
And if you didn't think that first chronicles was very exciting, we'll try to change that a little bit this morning.
This is David's prayer at the very end of his life.
Do you remember King David's life?
He was raised up by God, did battle with Goliath early on, had to take over the throne from Saul, who was not particularly
devoted or faithful to God's call, but David was raised up to be the king of Israel.
He was raised up to represent God to the people of Israel.
He was raised up to be a representative in every possible way of God's desires.
Of God is the true king who reigned over all people and over Israel, and David was to reflect that to the people.
And he did a reasonably good
Job at that, he certainly stumbled, we know.
If you know anything about David's life.
But in many ways, and you can read it and reading through the Psalms, many of which he wrote, David carried with him a humble reverence in attempting to follow God through the days of his life.
One thing that David never had the opportunity to do though was to build a temple in Jerusalem.
Before this time, for the people of Israel, they had had the tabernacle.
The tabernacle that they carried with them through the years of the exodus of wandering in the wilderness.
They brought it into Israel but never had turned it into a permanent construction.
No temple as of yet.
At one point, God told David, you are not going to be the one to build a temple.
You are a man of war.
You and the
battles you have brought about much bloodshed, it will be your son Solomon who will be the one to build the temple.
But this was David's goal, this was David's vision, his prayer that a temple would be built in Jerusalem that would honor the God of Israel.
So that's what comes before this passage.
And now here David in the final years of his life,
He prays this prayer over the people and over his own son Solomon, this is his hope for the future, that they would build a temple that would represent God, that would reflect God's majesty and God's might and God's mercy to the people.
So here's what David says earlier on in this passage before what I read already.
I have provided for the house of my God so far as I was able, the gold for the things of gold, the silver for the things of silver, the bronze for the things of bronze, the iron for the things of iron, the wood for the things of wood besides great quantities of onyx and stones for setting, antimony, colored stones, all sorts of precious stones and marble, moreover, in addition to all that I have provided for the Holy House.
I have a treasure of my own, of gold and silver,
Because of my devotion to the house of my God, I give it to the house of my God.
3,000 talents of gold of the gold of Ophir.
7,000 talents of refined silver for overlaying the walls of the house.
And for all the work to be done by craftsmen, gold for the things of gold and silver for the things of silver, who then will offer willingly, consecrating himself today to the Lord.
So what David says here in this passage is giving it all away.
At the end of his life, he's taking his entire treasury, everything that he's accumulated.
And during his reign, Israel has been successful militarily.
It has been successful in terms of a profitability among the nation and fruitfulness in the land.
All of these things have worked out in David's favor.
So can you guess how much money this might be worth today, David's entire treasury?
We don't really know.
It's almost impossible to do a one-to-one comparison.
But some estimates have suggested maybe about $5 billion, something along those lines.
Maybe more in that day.
He's accumulated all of this, much of it in the form of natural resources, of physical, tangible things, the talents of gold, the 7,000 talents of silver, all of these.
And now he is emptying
all that he has, his treasury, he is emptying all of the wealth that he has accumulated and saying, this now is to be for the temple.
All that I have had, all that has been given to me, now did he see taken and used for this purpose.
So this is David's final witness to the people, his final opportunity to serve them and to serve the Lord his God,
and his prayer for them, then is this.
Who am I and what is my people that we should be able thus to offer willingly?
For all things come from you and of your own we have given you.
For we are strangers before you and sojourners, as all of our fathers were, our days on the earth are like a shadow and there is no abiding.
O Lord our God, all this abundance that we have provided for building you a house for your holy name comes from your hand and is all your own.
David rightly looks at the resources that he has.
He acknowledges before God that while he has been able to accumulate much, none of it has ever been his anyway.
And so he gives it all back.
He turns it all over.
And in doing so, he prays this prayer before the people, who am I to be worthy of any of this anyway?
David provides a witness to them.
And what ends up happening is David commits to giving all of this over to the building of the temple and then the leaders of the people, the verses that follow, the leaders of the people, then they go to their own wealth and well-being, their own bank accounts and gold vaults or whatever they may have had.
And they also begin to empty them, not entirely, I'm sure, keeping some for themselves.
David knew he was at the end of his life and he no longer had need of these things.
But then his example goes and it flows down to the leaders and into the people.
And they all go out and they all bring back those things of value that they have, the precious stones, whatever jewelry they might have had to offer.
And it all goes to the building of this temple.
And if you now follow this on, Solomon does build the temple.
He builds the Lord's house and the Ark of the Covenant is finally returned to it because before this time,
The ark was in one place, the tabernacle was in another, and the people didn't have a central place to go and worship.
But now the temple was being built.
Obviously, you can see how this connects to the ways that we might think about our own stewardship as well.
Stewardship is simply the idea, the biblical idea that we have been given whatever we have in this life, whatever resources, and that can include time and talent and treasure,
often summarize it in those ways.
All that we have, whatever it may be, doesn't belong to us anyway.
All that we have is simply a gift of God given to us for a certain period of time.
However long he gives us breath in our lungs and time to use those things.
But if it is true for us that all of this belongs to God anyway, then one way I've heard of it said is, well, if this is not my stuff, but God's stuff, how much of God's stuff should I be keeping?
and how much of God's stuff should I be giving back to God's purposes.
However we do think of it, stewardship is really opening the door in a lot of ways to allowing joy to flow in to places in our lives.
Allowing joy that comes from being a part of ministry, which happens in this place, this church, this building, this institution, this congregation, ministry that happens here.
It allows the door to be open and joy to flow in as we have the opportunity to love and serve our neighbor in some way.
Maybe we give in other ways and other places.
Maybe we give of our time and volunteering.
That's one of my favorite things to see here at Mount Calvary when we're here in the office during the week and suddenly people start coming through.
And these things start happening that I don't even always think about that much.
We have a few people who come in and they go down to the Braille room and they start working in the Braille ministry.
And we have some other folks who come in, some of our women who come in and they do, they begin to do the quilting ministry.
And on Tuesdays, this last week, we were making sandwiches to be given away.
And some others came and got coffee at the coffee trailer out front.
And it's an amazing thing to see, to just be here, and all of a sudden see the different ways this church is active and involved.
And there is the ministry of time and of talent and of giving of ourselves.
I was having that conversation with someone this last week, you know, money is one thing.
But if we were a church with unlimited resources, unlimited money in the bank, and we had nobody who was actually here doing anything, what would it matter?
So as we think about stewardship today, we do think about finances, but I wanna make it clear as well, it's the whole package.
It's everything we have in our lives, all that God has entrusted to us, if we have talents, those talents are for sharing with others.
If God has given us time in a certain period in our life, that time can be used, not just for ourselves, but for a larger purpose.
And if we do have some financial wealth to share,
As David sets the example for his people today, that wealth can be given for a purpose that is beyond us.
Another thing I was thinking about this week, you look around this place, this building, this church.
I wonder if anybody in the room today was here when this building was built.
1962, I believe it was, 61?
One?
There's a couple of our homebound members as well who remember it.
I've had those conversations with them.
Up until about two years ago, Pastor Haupt was still with us.
And he was the pastor who was here at the time that this sanctuary was built.
But I was reflecting on that as well this week.
We're worshiping in a church that most of us didn't build.
A generation that came before us.
They gave the resources to create this space.
We're worshiping on a piece of property here in San Antonio that we didn't buy back in the 1940s, I believe it was.
A group of people got together and said, you know, there should be a church here.
And so they got the property and built the first
the first chapel, the first sanctuary, and then the rest of this came along later.
That's one of the other things I think David left a legacy in his gift.
He had a vision for the future of a way that God would be praised, God would be honored, God would be glorified by the people in generations to come
So he was able to leave something in order that that could happen.
He had a vision for the future, and there's people before us who had a vision for the future that built this place.
And God willing, we are also stewards.
We who are gathered here are stewards of this ministry, of this property, of this building, of all that we do here.
We are simply stewards because God willing, there will be a generation that comes after us that will also get to worship here and be blessed by the ministry of this place.
Of course, there's something even bigger and more important than all of that.
If you know the history of the temple, Solomon did build it, but it only lasted 400 years before Jerusalem was invaded and the temple was torn apart.
All of that wealth.
God did something later on and he, in talking about a temple, there's a bigger picture to all of this.
There's one person who is calm and he says, no longer do you need a temple, I am going to be the temple.
No longer do you need to go into Jerusalem to make sacrifices, I will be the sacrifice.
No longer do you have to venture off to one place, one holy place, I will be with you wherever you are.
Even David's temple, Solomon's temple was temporary.
And just like Warren Buffett has found out, everything in this world is temporary.
The God has given us something that is lasting, a lasting treasure, a lasting hope, an eternal kingdom that has been brought about by his son Jesus Christ, the true temple who was destroyed and then in three days raised again from the dead.
And that is our ultimate hope.
And really that's why all of this matters.
Can we get out from under
Can we get out from under the distractions of this world, the idols of this world, the things that we find comfort in in this world, those things that we might be tempted to trust in in this world, can we get out from under them so that we can worship the true God with all of our being, with all of our lives, with all of ourselves.
And when we do and if we do, what we'll find is God gives us joy in being stewards and giving back to him, to his ministry and his purposes,
whatever he invites us to give.
So let that be true for us today as we consider these things.
We pray all this now in Jesus' name.
Amen.
I invite the congregation to stand at this time.
And may the peace which passes all understanding keep our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Amen.